# elphbolt
`elphbolt` (short for *el*ectron-*ph*onon *Bol*tzmann *t*ransport) is a modern Fortran (2018 standard) code for solving the coupled electron and phonon Boltzmann transport equations (BTEs). It is a "free as in freedom" code distributed under the GNU Public License (GPL) version 3. You can read more about the philosophy of software freedom [here](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.en.html).

Using *ab initio* electron-phonon and phonon-phonon interactions and a fully wave vector and electron band/phonon branch resolved formulation of the BTEs, it can calculate the

- phonon and electronic thermal conductivities;
- electronic conductivity;
- phonon and electronic contribution to the thermopower;
- and the effect of the mutual electron-phonon drag effect on the transport coefficients listed above.

Stylistically, it is designed to be simple, fast, and extensible. The symmetries of the crystal are fully exploited and the transport active Fermi window is used to allow the sampling of extremely fine wave vector meshes needed for an accurate solution of the BTEs. Parallelism is achieved through modern Fortran's intrinsic `coarrays` feature that is fully supported by recent versions of both the `gcc` and `intel` compilers.

`elphbolt` currently interfaces with the `Quantum Espresso` suite for the phonon quantities and the `EPW` code for the Wannier space information.

At the present the project is approaching the beta phase.

The project is also lacking a logo. I was thinking of an elf throwing a lightning bolt, but my artistic skills do not including logo designing. Who here wants to contribute a magnificent piece of art for this noble project?

## Installation on HPC systems with `gcc`

### Get `spglib`

`elphbolt` uses the [`spglib`](https://spglib.github.io/spglib/) library for crystal symmetry analysis. Currently, version 1.6.0 has been tried and tested. Dependence on this library is planned for removal in the near future. A lot of HPCs provide this library as a module. If yours does not, and you are facing difficulties building it from source, talk to me.

### Get `OpenCoarrays`

[`OpenCoarrays`](http://www.opencoarrays.org/) is an implementation of the `coarrays` functionalities using `MPI` as the underlying engine. Some HPC systems include it (for example MareNostrum and, more recently, LaPalma of the Barcelona Supercomputing Center (BSC)). In that case, load it. If not, you can build it from source. I was able to build version 2.0.0 on the LaPalma system of BSC by first loading `gcc`, `openmpi`, and `cmake`, then going into the `OpenCoarrays-2.0.0` directory and saying `./install.sh`. The executables `caf` and `cafrun` were then installed in `OpenCoarrays-2.0.0/prerequisites/installations/bin/`. I added the above directory to my `$PATH` in my `bashrc`.

### Adapt the provided `arch.makefiles`

In the `elphbolt` src directory you will find a few `<title>.make` files. Adapt them to your own architecture. Then, in the `Makefile` include your personal `<title>.make` file at the top.

Once you have done the above, simply say `make`. This should build the executable `elphbolt.x` one directory above. Let me know if you face difficulties.

## Tests

I will find a way to share the (GBs of) inputs for some test materials. Give me a few days...

## Workflow

This is a transport code. And it comes after doing some DFT, DFPT, and Wannier calculations. I will fully document the workflow here. Give me a few days...

## Note for developers 

`elphbolt` takes as input the `epwdata.fmt` file generated by `EPW`. The third line of this file contains the Born effective charge and the dielectric tensors. For an `intel` build of `EPW` this line is broken over multiple lines. This is not the case for a `gcc` build of `EPW`. `elphbolt` requires that there are no line breaks. So before passing this file in to `elphbolt`, fix the line break issue if you generated this file using an `intel` build of `EPW`. I am thinking about how to natively handle this from within `elphbolt`. Give me a few days...where's the fire?
